title: "Spread Your Wings"

  Today was the first excersize in Javascript for my software engineering class. These excersizes are called Workout of the Days and they were designed to train ICS students to quickly and efficiently solve problems and come up with algorithms in a very short period of time. The goal of this is to prepare the students for future interview questions where we will be put on the spot and asked to figure out a potentially difficult problem. My initial feelings toward this asignment was some anxiety due to the fact that I did not know what to expect and I am definatly a noob when it comes to coding in general. I understand the logic and tracing, and I would consider myself a good problem solver. However when it comes to memorizing formal code and proper formatting, that is my downfall. During the WOD I unfortunately had a syntax error the entire time that I could not figure out. I knew the logic was right because it was the same as my partner and he got his code to work. I definatly need to work on memorizing correct formatting and language specifics. Javascript is very new to me. The only other language I have used  was Java and they seem very similair. I am not entirely sure if Javacript is the most ideal language for software engineering but I do know that some functions are easier to remember in Javascript than Java.
  Overall the whole experience was rough but very necessary. It is important that as a student, and especially one who is close to graduation, that they be ready for any problem they may encounter. The WODs in my opinion are designed very well because they put stress on our minds and force us to excersize our problem solving skills. Just like working out our muscles in the gym, it takes a little bit of pain and stress on our muscles to force them to grow, and I believe it is the same with our cognitive abilities. The more we train and excersize this skill of computer problem solving, the better we will get, however it will take some pain and suffering to get there.
